# BIOMD0000000546: MODEL1405150000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000546.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000546.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Miao2010 - Innate and adaptive immune responses to primary Influenza A Virus
infection

This model is described in the article:

[Quantifying the early immune response and adaptive immune response kinetics
in mice infected with influenza A
virus.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20410284)

Miao H, Hollenbaugh JA, Zand MS, Holden-Wiltse J, Mosmann TR, Perelson AS, Wu
H, Topham DJ.

J. Virol. 2010 Jul; 84(13): 6687-6698

Abstract:

Seasonal and pandemic influenza A virus (IAV) continues to be a public health
threat. However, we lack a detailed and quantitative understanding of the
immune response kinetics to IAV infection and which biological parameters most
strongly influence infection outcomes. To address these issues, we use
modeling approaches combined with experimental data to quantitatively
investigate the innate and adaptive immune responses to primary IAV infection.
Mathematical models were developed to describe the dynamic interactions
between target (epithelial) cells, influenza virus, cytotoxic T lymphocytes
(CTLs), and virus-specific IgG and IgM. IAV and immune kinetic parameters were
estimated by fitting models to a large data set obtained from primary H3N2 IAV
infection of 340 mice. Prior to a detectable virus-specific immune response
(before day 5), the estimated half-life of infected epithelial cells is
approximately 1.2 days, and the half-life of free infectious IAV is
approximately 4 h. During the adaptive immune response (after day 5), the
average half-life of infected epithelial cells is approximately 0.5 days, and
the average half-life of free infectious virus is approximately 1.8 min.
During the adaptive phase, model fitting confirms that CD8(+) CTLs are crucial
for limiting infected cells, while virus-specific IgM regulates free IAV
levels. This may imply that CD4 T cells and class-switched IgG antibodies are
more relevant for generating IAV-specific memory and preventing future
infection via a more rapid secondary immune response. Also, simulation studies
were performed to understand the relative contributions of biological
parameters to IAV clearance. This study provides a basis to better understand
and predict influenza virus immunity.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000546](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000546).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


